docs: rework custom fonts usage guide (#2751)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/guides/fonts.mdx

import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro';

This guide will show you how to add web fonts to your project and use them in your components.

## Using a local font file

> Let's imagine you have a `DistantGalaxy.woff` font file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example will demonstrate adding a custom font using the font file `DistantGalaxy.woff`.
```

1. Add your font file to `public/fonts/`.

> 1. Add an `@font-face` statement to your CSS. This could be in a global `.css` file you import, a `<style is:global>` block, or a `<style>` block in a specific layout or component where you want to use this font.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following `@font-face` statement to your CSS. This could be in a global `.css` file you import, a `<style is:global>` block, or a `<style>` block in a specific layout or component where you want to use this font.
```
This allows us to avoid the "a/an" question, because a reader might not read the "at" out loud.

> Astro supports all common strategies for adding custom typefaces to your site design. This guide will show you two options for including web fonts in your project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will show you how to add web fonts to your project and use them in your components.
```
Now's a good time to revise this intro. 
- Not clear what "all common strategies" includes, and it doesn't add much. 
- "Add web fonts" matches the rest of this guide, instead of "including web fonts" 
- "two options" - also doesn't add much as we have the sidebar
- Since this is an intro to the entire page, we want to introduce more than adding, as the Tailwind section shows you an additional way to _use_ the fonts

Author: That's great that you spotted these aspects in the intro because they confused me as well (especially points 1 and 3) and I was going to improve it as the second step.

> ## Add fonts to your project

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about this edit to have two top-level headings : "Add fonts to your project" and "Integrations". 
- "Add fonts to your project" actually shows you both how to add the fonts (put them in `public`; install with Fontsource) and how to use them (`font-family`)
- The "Integrations" title isn't very descriptive 
- There's only one subsection there, and I can't think of other potential subsections
- The Tailwind subsection relies on the other two subsections, implying that they're in a sequence. Separating it into another larger section makes it seem independent. 

My suggestion: "Add fonts with Tailwind" to "Register fonts in Tailwind" and have all of the sections top-level.

Happy to defer to @sarah11918 on this.

Author: Well, that's a good one.

Initially, in the intro there was a phrase telling that there are two options of including fonts to your project but when you are checking the sidebar, there were 3 of them, in fact, including Tailwind integration which was a bit confusing. So I decided to split those parts. As long as we revised the intro in this PR as well, I have no objections about keeping the Tailwind section as before, following your suggestion.

Author: I suggest switching to an even simpler document structure

Before | After
-------|------
<img width="224" alt="toc" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16765690/221992389-0ef6cbdf-3dae-494d-8f26-2f159a553572.png"> | <img width="215" alt="toc2" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16765690/221993483-7d73c35e-f2ee-4739-985b-eafb75db4db4.png">

@Jutanium @sarah11918 What do you think?

Reviewer 2: @bandantonio Agreed, this is what I had in mind!

### Using a local font file

> If you want to add font files to your project, we recommend adding them to your [`public/` directory](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/#public). In your CSS you can then register fonts with an [`@font-face` statement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@font-face) and use the `font-family` property to style your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I'm thinking we don't need this introduction at all - the example steps just repeat this content.

> If you want to add font files to your project, we recommend adding them to your [`public/` directory](/en/core-concepts/project-structure/#public). In your CSS you can then register fonts with an [`@font-face` statement](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/@font-face) and use the `font-family` property to style your site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I'm thinking we don't need this introduction at all - the example steps just repeat this content.

    ```

>     :::note

Author: I also thought about that, maybe we can delete the note? It actually describes one of the basic concepts that the user should understand after getting started with Astro. And I agree that it takes a lot of visual attention

>     :::note

Reviewer: OK, let's just remove the note entirely then, and wait to see if anyone complains!  :sweat_smile:

    ```

    :::note
    You don't need to include `public` in the font's source URL because all files in `public` get added to your site's root directory.
    :::

> 1. Use the `font-family` from the `@font-face` statement to style elements in your component or layout. In this example, the `<h1>` heading will have the custom font applied, while the paragraph `<p>` will not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Use the `font-family` value from the `@font-face` statement to style elements in your component or layout. In this example, the `<h1>` heading will have the custom font applied, while the paragraph `<p>` will not.
```

> The [Fontsource](https://fontsource.org/) project simplifies using Google Fonts and other open source fonts. It provides npm modules you can install for the fonts you want to use.

Reviewer 3: Not something added in your PR but why not use this opportunity to fix this and advocate for "open-source" for consistency's sake.
```suggestion
The [Fontsource](https://fontsource.org/) project simplifies using Google Fonts and other open-source fonts. It provides npm modules you can install for the fonts you want to use.
```

Reviewer: Thanks Yan! I'll just commit this so we can merge!  :partying_face:

The [Fontsource](https://fontsource.org/) project simplifies using Google Fonts and other open source fonts. It provides npm modules you can install for the fonts you want to use.

> 1. Find the font you want to use in [Fontsource's catalog](https://fontsource.org/fonts). For this example, we'll use [Twinkle Star](https://fontsource.org/fonts/twinkle-star).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Find the font you want to use in [Fontsource's catalog](https://fontsource.org/fonts). This example, will use [Twinkle Star](https://fontsource.org/fonts/twinkle-star).
```

    </PackageManagerTabs>

    :::tip
    You'll find the correct package name in the “Quick Installation” section of each font page on Fontsource's website. It will start with `@fontsource/` followed by the name of the font.
    :::

> 1. Import the font package in the layout or component where you want to use the font. Usually, you will want to do this in a common layout component to make sure the font is available across your site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Import the font package in the component where you want to use the font. Usually, you will want to do this in a common layout component to make sure the font is available across your site.
```
I'm thinking since we are explicitly callingout layout components below, we can just say "component" here?

    The import will automatically add the necessary `@font-face` rules needed to set up the font.

    ```astro title="src/layouts/BaseLayout.astro"
    ---
    import '@fontsource/twinkle-star';
    ---
    ```

> 1. Use the `font-family` as shown on that font's Fontsource page. This will work anywhere you can write CSS in your Astro project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the font's name as shown in the `body` example on its Fontsource page as the `font-family` value. This will work anywhere you can write CSS in your Astro project.
```
I checked the website for clarity, since the package name (kebab-case) is also shown "on the font's Fontsource page". I think something like more this hits home that use import the package name, but you *use* the font familiar name in the CSS directly?

Reviewer: Sorry, had a little typo:

The original wording said "as shown on the Fontsource page" but on that page itself, it shows both the package name (`twinkle-star`) AND the regular, natural language name `Twinkle Star`. So my objection was re: just saying to use it "as shown on the page" because that's not specific enough: it's shown in two different ways there.

The nature of my change was to call attention to the difference: that when you import, you use the *package* name (kebab case), but when you actually write in the body of the CSS, you use the *font's* "given" name (for lack of a better word). 

Does my suggested edit make sense?

Author: Thanks for the clarification.
Yes, your suggestion does make sense, and after checking the quick installation page, I had another thought. In the suggested edit, we kind of committed to the way how installation looks like. What if, at some point in the future, they will update the instructions? Or we are ok with updating the page afterward?

    ```css
    h1 {
      font-family: "Twinkle Star", cursive;
    }
    ```

## Register fonts in Tailwind

> If you are using the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/), you can either add an [`@font-face` statement for a local font](#using-a-local-font-file) or use [Fontsource's `import` strategy](#using-fontsource) to install your font.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/), you can use either of the previous methods on this page to install your font, with some modification. You can either add an [`@font-face` statement for a local font](#using-a-local-font-file) or use [Fontsource's `import` strategy](#using-fontsource) to install your font.
```

> :::note
> Make yourself familiar with the mentioned strategies before proceeding with the following steps.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Absolutely not!  :smile:

    ```

## Integrations

> ### Add fonts with Tailwind

Reviewer 2: See my first comment

> If you are using the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/), you can either add an [`@font-face` statement for a local font](#using-a-local-font-file) or use [Fontsource's `import` strategy](#using-fontsource) to register your font.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using the [Tailwind integration](/en/guides/integrations-guide/tailwind/), you can either add an [`@font-face` statement for a local font](#using-a-local-font-file) or use [Fontsource's `import` strategy](#using-fontsource) to install your font.
```
"Install" makes it clear that this is a precursor step to "register" below, not the same step

>     Now, all sans-serif text (the default with Tailwind) in your project will use your chosen font and the `font-sans` class will also apply the Inter font.

Reviewer: So, no objections to the text, but it seems like this example applies the font as your main sans-serif font whereas the earlier examples were targeting individual elements. If that's the case, someone *might* wonder whether you can use this font in Tailwind on a per-element basis, the way we've shown in the other examples, or whether this is only for setting a default. I'm not sure if this is a real concern or not, but came to mind so I'm bringing it up.

Reviewer 2: Tailwind doesn't work on a per-element basis, it gives you a class that you can add to elements. Here we're showing how to change the value of the `font-sans` class, which also happens to be the default (if you assign no classes) in Tailwind.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!
